Federal Register, Volume 90 Issue 9 (Wednesday, January 15, 2025) [Federal Register Volume 90, Number 9 (Wednesday, January 15, 2025)] [Notices] [Pages 3960-3961] From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [ www.gpo.gov ] [FR Doc No: 2025-00809] ----------------------------------------------------------------------- DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Agency Information Collection Activities; Submission for OMB Review; Comment Request; Alien Claims Activity Report ACTION: Notice of availability; request for comments. ----------------------------------------------------------------------- SUMMARY: The Department of Labor (DOL) is submitting this Employment and Training Administration (ETA)-sponsored information collection request (ICR) to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and approval in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA). Public comments on the ICR are invited. [[Page 3961]] DATES: The OMB will consider all written comments that the agency receives on or before February 14, 2025. ADDRESSES: Written comments and recommendations for the proposed information collection should be sent within 30 days of publication of this notice to www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAMain . Find this particular information collection by selecting ``Currently under 30-day Review-- Open for Public Comments'' or by using the search function. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael Howell by telephone at 202- 693-6782, or by email at [email protected] . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The USCIS verification system, commonly called the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlement (SAVE) Program, is currently available to and being utilized by the states. To comply with its responsibilities under the SSA, the Department of Labor (Department) must gather information from state agencies concerning alien claimant activities. The Alien Claimant Activity Report is the only source available for collecting this information. The report allows the Department to determine the number of aliens filing for unemployment insurance (UI), the number of benefit issues detected and the denials resulting from the USCIS SAVE system. From these data, the Department can determine the extent to which state agencies use the system, and the overall effectiveness and cost efficiency of the USCIS SAVE verification system. For additional substantive information about this ICR, see the related notice published in the Federal Register on August 1, 2024 (89 FR 62792). Comments are invited on: (1) whether the collection of information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the Department, including whether the information will have practical utility; (2) the accuracy of the agency's estimates of the burden and cost of the collection of information, including the validity of the methodology and assumptions used; (3) ways to enhance the quality, utility and clarity of the information collection; and (4) ways to minimize the burden of the collection of information on those who are to respond, including the use of automated collection techniques or other forms of information technology. This information collection is subject to the PRA. A Federal agency generally cannot conduct or sponsor a collection of information, and the public is generally not required to respond to an information collection, unless the OMB approves it and displays a currently valid OMB Control Number. In addition, notwithstanding any other provisions of law, no person shall generally be subject to penalty for failing to comply with a collection of information that does not display a valid OMB Control Number. See 5 CFR 1320.5(a) and 1320.6. DOL seeks PRA authorization for this information collection for three (3) years. OMB authorization for an ICR cannot be for more than three (3) years without renewal. The DOL notes that information collection requirements submitted to the OMB for existing ICRs receive a month-to-month extension while they undergo review. Agency: DOL-ETA. Title of Collection: Alien Claims Activity Report. OMB Control No.: 1205-0268. Affected Public: State Workforce Agencies. Total Estimated Number of Respondents: 53. Total Estimated Number of Responses: 212. Total Estimated Annual Time Burden: 212 hours. Total Estimated Annual Other Costs Burden: $0. (Authority: 44 U.S.C. 3507(a)(1)(D)) Michael Howell, Senior Paperwork Reduction Act Analyst. [FR Doc. 2025-00809 Filed 1-14-25; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510-FN-P