Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 176 (Monday, September 14, 2026) [Federal Register Volume 91, Number 176 (Monday, September 14, 2026)] [Notices] [Pages 58164-58165] From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [ www.gpo.gov ] [FR Doc No: 2026-18686] ----------------------------------------------------------------------- DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services [OMB Control Number 1615-0020] Agency Information Collection Activities; Revision of a Currently Approved Collection: Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant AGENCY: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security. ACTION: 60-Day notice. ----------------------------------------------------------------------- SUMMARY: The Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) invites the general public and other Federal agencies to comment upon this proposed revision of a currently approved collection of information. In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) of 1995, the information collection notice is published in the Federal Register to obtain comments regarding the nature of the information collection, the categories of respondents, the estimated burden (i.e., the time, effort, and resources used by the respondents to respond), the estimated cost to the respondent, and the actual information collection instruments. DATES: Comments are encouraged and will be accepted for 60 days until November 13, 2026. ADDRESSES: All submissions received must include the OMB Control Number 1615-0020 in the body of the letter, the agency name and Docket ID USCIS-2007-0024. Submit comments via the Federal eRulemaking Portal website at https://www.regulations.gov under e-Docket ID number USCIS- 2007-0024. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: USCIS, Office of Policy and Strategy, Regulatory Coordination Division, John R. Pfirrmann-Powell, Acting Deputy Chief, telephone number (240) 721-3000 (This is not a toll-free number. Comments are not accepted via telephone message). Please note contact information provided here is solely for questions regarding this notice. It is not for individual case status inquiries. Applicants seeking information about the status of their individual cases can check Case Status Online, available at the USCIS website at https://www.uscis.gov , or call the USCIS Contact Center at 800-375-5283 (TTY 800-767-1833). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments You may access the information collection instrument with instructions or additional information by visiting the Federal eRulemaking Portal site at: https://www.regulations.gov and entering USCIS-2007-0024 in the search box. Comments must be submitted in English, or an English translation must be provided. All submissions will be posted, without change, to the Federal eRulemaking Portal at https://www.regulations.gov , and will include any personal information you provide. Therefore, submitting this information makes it public. You may wish to consider limiting the amount of personal information that you provide in any voluntary submission you make to DHS. DHS may withhold information provided in comments from public viewing that it determines may impact the privacy of an individual or is offensive. For additional information, please read the Privacy Act notice that is available via the link in the footer of https://www.regulations.gov . Written comments and suggestions from the public and affected agencies should address one or more of the following four points: (1) Evaluate whether the proposed collection of information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the agency, including whether the information will have practical utility; (2) Evaluate the accuracy of the agency's estimate of the burden of the proposed collection of information, including the validity of the methodology and assumptions used; (3) Enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected; and (4) Minimize the burden of the collection of information on those who are to respond, including through the use of appropriate automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submission of responses. Overview of This Information Collection (1) Type of Information Collection: Revision of a Currently Approved Collection. (2) Title of the Form/Collection: Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant. (3) Agency form number, if any, and the applicable component of the DHS sponsoring the collection: Form I-360; USCIS. (4) Affected public who will be asked or required to respond, as well as a brief abstract: Primary: Form I-360 may be used by an Amerasian; a widow or widower; a battered or abused spouse or child of a U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident; a battered or abused parent of a U.S. citizen son or daughter; or a special immigrant (religious worker, Panama Canal company employee, Canal Zone government employee, U.S. government employee in the Canal Zone; physician, international organization employee or family member, juvenile court dependent; armed forces member); Afghan or Iraqi national who supported the U.S. Armed Forces as a translator; Iraqi national who worked for the or on behalf of the U.S. Government in Iraq; or Afghan national who worked for or on behalf of the U.S. Government or the International Security Assistance Force [ISAF] in Afghanistan who intend to establish their eligibility to immigrate to the United States. The data collected on this form is reviewed by USCIS to determine if the petitioner may be qualified to obtain the benefit. The data collected on this form will also be used to issue an employment authorization [[Page 58165]] document upon approval of the petition for battered or abused spouses, children, and parents, if requested. (5) An estimate of the total number of respondents and the amount of time estimated for an average respondent to respond: The estimated total number of respondents for the information collection Petition for Amerasian, Widower, or Special Immigration (Form I-360); Iraqi & Afghan Petitioners is 1,916 and the estimated hour burden per response is 2.9 hours; the estimated total number of respondents for the information collection Petition for Amerasian, Widower, or Special Immigration (Form I-360); Religious Workers is 2,393 and the estimated hour burden per response is 2.17 hours; the estimated total number of respondents for the information collection Petition for Amerasian, Widower, or Special Immigration (Form I-360); All Others is 14,362 and the estimated hour burden per response is 1.9 hours. (6) An estimate of the total public burden (in hours) associated with the collection: The total estimated annual hour burden associated with this collection is 38,307 hours. (7) An estimate of the total public burden (in cost) associated with the collection: The estimated total annual cost burden associated with this collection of information is $2,287,080. Dated: August 25, 2026. John R. Pfirrmann-Powell, Acting Deputy Chief, Regulatory Coordination Division, Office of Policy and Strategy, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security. [FR Doc. 2026-18686 Filed 9-11-26; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 9111-97-P