Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 142 (Monday, July 27, 2026) [Federal Register Volume 91, Number 142 (Monday, July 27, 2026)] [Notices] [Pages 46969-46970] From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [ www.gpo.gov ] [FR Doc No: 2026-15131] ----------------------------------------------------------------------- DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Wage and Hour Division Agency Information Collection Activities; Comment Request; Information Collection--Housing Occupancy Certificates Under the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act AGENCY: Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor. ACTION: Notice. ----------------------------------------------------------------------- SUMMARY: The Department of Labor (Department) is soliciting comments concerning a proposed extension of the information collection request (ICR) titled, ``Housing Occupancy Certificates Under the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act.'' This comment request is part of continuing Departmental efforts to reduce paperwork and respondent burden in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995. The Department proposes to extend its information collection without change to existing requirements. This program helps to ensure that requested data can be provided in the desired format, reporting burden (time and financial resources) is minimized, collection instruments are clearly understood, and the impact of collection requirements on respondents can be properly assessed. A copy of the proposed information request can be obtained by contacting the office listed below in the FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT section of this Notice. DATES: Written comments must be submitted to the office listed in the ADDRESSES section below on or before September 25, 2026. ADDRESSES: You may submit comments identified by Control Number 1235- 0005 by either one of the following methods: Email: [email protected] . Mail, Hand Delivery, Courier: Division of Regulations, Legislation, and Interpretation, Wage and Hour, U.S. Department of Labor, Room S-3502, 200 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20210. Instructions: Please submit one copy of your comments by only one method. All submissions received must include the agency name and Control Number identified above for this information collection. Comments, including any personal information provided, become a matter of public record. They will also be summarized and/or included in the request for Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approval of the information collection request. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Daniel Navarrete, Division of Regulations, Legislation, and Interpretation, Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, Room S-3502, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20210; telephone: (202) 693-0406 (this is not a toll- free number). Alternative formats are available upon request by calling 1-866-487-9243. If you are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability, please dial 7-1-1 to access telecommunications relay services. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background The Wage and Hour Division (WHD) of the Department of Labor (Department) administers the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act (MSPA), 29 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. MSPA protects migrant and seasonal agricultural workers by establishing employment standards related to wages, housing, transportation, disclosures, and recordkeeping. MSPA also requires farm labor contractors and farm labor contractor employees to register with the Department and to obtain special authorization before housing workers, using a vehicle to transport workers, or driving such vehicles. MSPA requires any person who owns or controls any facility or real property that is used to house migrant agricultural workers to post a copy of the certificate of occupancy at the site of the facility or real property. The certificate attests that a state, local, or federal agency [[Page 46970]] conducted a housing safety and health inspection and verified that the facility or real property meets the applicable safety and health standards. Migrant agricultural workers may not be housed at any facility or real property without such certificate of occupancy. The original certificate must be retained by the person who owns or controls the facility or real property for 3 years and made available for inspection upon the Department's request. The Department makes optional form WH-520 available for these purposes. Form WH-520 is both an information gathering form and a certificate of occupancy that WHD issues when it is the federal agency conducting the safety and health inspection. II. Review Focus: The Department is particularly interested in comments that: Evaluate whether the proposed collection of information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the agency, including whether the information will have practical utility; Enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected; Evaluate the accuracy of the agency's estimate of the burden of the proposed collection of information, including the validity of the methodology and assumptions used; Minimize the burden of the collection of information on those who are to respond, including through the use of appropriate automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submissions of responses. III. Current Actions: The Department seeks approval for the extension of this information collection that requires any person owning or controlling any facility or real property to be occupied by migrant agricultural workers to obtain a certificate of occupancy. Type of Review: Extension. Agency: Wage and Hour Division. Title: Housing Occupancy Certificate--Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act. OMB Number: 1235-0006. Affected Public: Business or other for-profit, Not-for-profit institutions, Farms. Total Respondents: 10. Total Annual Responses: 10. Estimated Total Burden Hours: 0.67 hours. Estimated Time per Response: 3-4 minutes. Frequency: Annual. Total Burden Cost (capital/startup): $0. Total Burden Costs (operation/maintenance): $32.13 Dated: July 21, 2026. Daniel Navarrete, Director, Division of Regulations, Legislation, and Interpretation. [FR Doc. 2026-15131 Filed 7-24-26; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510-27-P