Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 88 (Thursday, May 7, 2026) [Federal Register Volume 91, Number 88 (Thursday, May 7, 2026)] [Notices] [Pages 24910-24911] From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [ www.gpo.gov ] [FR Doc No: 2026-09107] ----------------------------------------------------------------------- DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services [OMB Control Number 1615-0007] Agency Information Collection Activities; Reinstatement, With Change, of a Previously Approved Collection for Which Approval Has Expired: Alien Change of Address AGENCY: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security. ACTION: 60-Day notice. ----------------------------------------------------------------------- SUMMARY: The Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) invites the general public and other Federal agencies to comment upon this proposed reinstatement, with change, of a previously approved collection for which approval has expired. In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) of 1995, the information collection notice is published in the Federal Register to obtain comments regarding the nature of the information collection, the categories of respondents, the estimated burden (i.e. the time, effort, and resources used by the respondents to respond), the estimated cost to the respondent, and the actual information collection instruments. DATES: Comments are encouraged and will be accepted for 60 days until July 6, 2026. ADDRESSES: All submissions received must include the OMB Control Number 1615-0007 in the body of the letter, the agency name and Docket ID USCIS-2008-0018. Submit comments via the Federal eRulemaking Portal website at https://www.regulations.gov under e-Docket ID number USCIS- 2008-0018. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: USCIS, Office of Policy and Strategy, Regulatory Coordination Division, John R. Pfirrmann-Powell, Acting Deputy Chief, telephone number (240) 721-3000 (This is not a toll-free number. Comments are not accepted via telephone message). Please note contact information provided here is solely for questions regarding this notice. It is not for individual case status inquiries. Applicants seeking information about the status of their individual cases can check Case Status Online, available at the USCIS website at https://www.uscis.gov , or call the USCIS Contact Center at 800-375-5283 (TTY 800-767-1833). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The U.S. government is conducting a comprehensive review of all relevant policies, regulations and guidance related to the receipt of means-tested public benefits and the public charge ground of deportability. Therefore, the Secretary has decided to exercise his statutory authority under INA section 287, 8 U.S.C. 1357, to require aliens subject to registration and change of address reporting requirements under INA section 265, 8 U.S.C. 1305, to also report information pertaining to their receipt of any means-tested public benefits, as well as information related to their employment and schooling, when notifying USCIS of their change of address. This information will be used by the Secretary to enforce the immigration laws of the United States, including the public charge ground of deportation under INA section 237(a)(5), 8 U.S.C. 1227(a)(5). It will also be used to identify aliens who may be receiving means-tested public benefits in violation of the restrictions on eligibility established by Congress in Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, Public Law 104-193 (PRWORA), codified in 8 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., and to coordinate with means-tested public benefits granting agencies to better enforce those restrictions. Individuals who are not subject to INA section 265, 8 U.S.C. 1305, are not required to provide information related to the receipt of means- tested public benefits or information related to employment and schooling). Comments You may access the information collection instrument with instructions or additional information by visiting the Federal eRulemaking Portal site at: https://www.regulations.gov and entering USCIS-2008-0018 in the search box. Comments must be submitted in English, or an English translation must be provided. All submissions will be posted, without change, to the Federal eRulemaking Portal at https://www.regulations.gov , and will include any personal information you provide. Therefore, submitting this information makes it public. You may wish to consider limiting the amount of personal information that you provide in any voluntary submission you make to DHS. DHS may withhold information provided in comments from public viewing that it determines may impact the privacy of an individual or is offensive. For additional information, please read the Privacy Act notice that is available via the link in the footer of https://www.regulations.gov . Written comments and suggestions from the public and affected agencies should address one or more of the following four points: (1) Evaluate whether the proposed collection of information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the agency, including whether the information will have practical utility; (2) Evaluate the accuracy of the agency's estimate of the burden of the proposed collection of information, including the validity of the methodology and assumptions used; (3) Enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected; and (4) Minimize the burden of the collection of information on those who are to respond, including through the use of appropriate automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submission of responses. Overview of This Information Collection (1) Type of Information Collection: Reinstatement, With Change, of a Previously Approved Collection For Which Approval Has Expired. (2) Title of the Form/Collection: Alien Change of Address. (3) Agency form number, if any, and the applicable component of the DHS sponsoring the collection: AR-11; USCIS. (4) Affected public who will be asked or required to respond, as well as a brief abstract: Primary: Individuals or households. Form AR- 11, Alien Change of Address, provides a standardized format for aliens who are required to report their change of address to inform USCIS of an address change in compliance with INA section 265, 8 U.S.C. 1305. Alien Change of Address Online provides a standardized format for providing change of address information electronically. This information collection may also be used by persons with a pending immigration benefit request with USCIS, or an approved immigrant visa petition to report a change of address to USCIS, consistent with INA section 103, 8 U.S.C. 1103. The information collected on this form may be used to determine whether an alien is deportable under INA sections 237(a)(3) or (5) (8 U.S.C. [[Page 24911]] 1227(a)(3) or (5)). Aliens subject to change of address reporting requirements under INA section 265, 8 U.S.C. 1305, will also report information on any receipt of means-tested public benefits, as well as information related to their employment or schooling, when notifying USCIS of their change of address. (5) An estimate of the total number of respondents and the amount of time estimated for an average respondent to respond: The estimated total number of annual respondents for the information collection Alien Change of Address (paper) is 244,274 and the estimated hour burden per response is 0.5 hours; the estimated total number of annual respondents for the information collection Alien Change of Address Online is 2,440,059 and the estimated hour burden per response is 0.47 hours. (6) An estimate of the total public burden (in hours) associated with the collection: The estimated total annual hour burden associated with this collection is 1,268,965 hours. (7) An estimate of the total public burden (in cost) associated with the collection: The estimated total annual cost burden associated with this collection of information is $916,028. Dated: May 5, 2026 John R. Pfirrmann-Powell, Acting Deputy Chief, Regulatory Coordination Division, Office of Policy and Strategy, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security. [FR Doc. 2026-09107 Filed 5-6-26; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 9111-97-P