Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 86 (Tuesday, May 5, 2026) [Federal Register Volume 91, Number 86 (Tuesday, May 5, 2026)] [Notices] [Pages 24314-24315] From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [ www.gpo.gov ] [FR Doc No: 2026-08653] ----------------------------------------------------------------------- DEPARTMENT OF STATE [Public Notice 12995] 60-Day Notice of Proposed Information Collection: Petition To Classify Special Immigrant Under INA 203(b)(4) as an Employee or Former Employee of the U.S. Government Abroad, or the Surviving Spouse or Child of an Employee of the U.S. Government Abroad ACTION: Notice of request for public comment. ----------------------------------------------------------------------- SUMMARY: The Department of State is seeking Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approval for the information collection described below. In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, we are requesting comments on this collection [[Page 24315]] from all interested individuals and organizations. The purpose of this notice is to allow 60 days for public comment preceding submission of the collection to OMB. DATES: The Department will accept comments from the public up to July 6, 2026. ADDRESSES: You may submit comments by any of the following methods: Web: Persons with access to the internet may comment on this notice by going to www.Regulations.gov . You can search for the document by entering ``Docket Number: DOS-2026-0430'' in the Search field. Then click the ``Comment Now'' button and complete the comment form. Email: [email protected] . Regular Mail: Send written comments to: Senior Regulatory Coordinator, Visa Services, Department of State, 600 19th St. NW, Washington, DC 20006. You must include the DS form number (if applicable), information collection title, and the OMB control number in any correspondence. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title of Information Collection: Petition to Classify Special Immigrant Under INA 203(b)(4) as an Employee or Former Employee of the U.S. Government Abroad, or the Surviving Spouse or Child of an Employee of the U.S. Government Abroad. OMB Control Number: 1405-0082. Type of Request: Extension of a Currently Approved Collection. Originating Office: Consular Affairs, Visa Office. Form Number: DS-1884. Respondents: Employees or Former Employees of the U.S. Government Abroad, or the Surviving Spouse or Child of an Employee of the U.S. Government Abroad. Estimated Number of Respondents: 3,000. Estimated Number of Responses: 3,000. Average Time per Response: 15 minutes. Total Estimated Burden Time: 750 hours. Frequency: Once per application. Obligation to Respond: Required to obtain or retain a benefit. We are soliciting public comments to permit the Department to: Evaluate whether the proposed information collection is necessary for the proper functions of the Department. Evaluate the accuracy of our estimate of the time and cost burden for this proposed collection, including the validity of the methodology and assumptions used. Enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected. Minimize the reporting burden on those who are to respond, including the use of automated collection techniques or other forms of information technology. Please note that comments submitted in response to this Notice are public record. Before including any detailed personal information, you should be aware that your comments as submitted, including your personal information, will be available for public review. Abstract of Proposed Collection The DS-1884, ``Petition to Classify Special Immigrant Under INA 203(b)(4) as an Employee or Former Employee of the U.S. Government Abroad, or the Surviving Spouse or Child of an Employee of the U.S. Government Abroad,'' solicits information from aliens claiming employment-based immigrant visa preference under section 203(b)(4) of the Immigration and Nationality Act based on qualification as a special immigrant described in section 101(a)(27)(D) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. The DS-1884 form is used to file an immigrant visa petition by an eligible alien employee or qualifying former alien employee of the U.S. government abroad who performed faithful service for at least 15 years in exceptional circumstances; or the surviving spouse or child of an alien employee of the U.S. government abroad who performed faithful service for at least 15 years or was killed in the line of duty. The DS-1884 petition solicits information that will assist the consular officer in ensuring that the alien is statutorily qualified to receive such status. Methodology The applicant can obtain a paper copy of the petition from consular posts abroad, or retrieve an electronic copy from https://eforms.state.gov/ . The completed form can be submitted in person at the consular section in the applicant's resident location, or via mail or email with the consular section. Individuals may file the petition at an alternative consular section if a consular officer finds that emergent or humanitarian circumstances warrant such an action. Stuart R. Wilson, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Department of State. [FR Doc. 2026-08653 Filed 5-4-26; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4710-06-P