Federal Register, Volume 90 Issue 139 (Wednesday, July 23, 2025) [Federal Register Volume 90, Number 139 (Wednesday, July 23, 2025)] [Notices] [Pages 34668-34669] From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [ www.gpo.gov ] [FR Doc No: 2025-13839] ----------------------------------------------------------------------- DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services [OMB Control Number 1615-0013] Agency Information Collection Activities; Revision of a Currently Approved Collection: Application for Travel Document AGENCY: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security. ACTION: 60-Day notice. ----------------------------------------------------------------------- SUMMARY: The Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) invites the general public and other Federal agencies to comment upon this proposed revision of a currently approved collection of information. In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) of 1995, the information collection notice is published in the Federal Register to obtain comments regarding the nature of the information collection, the categories of respondents, the estimated burden (i.e., the time, effort, and resources used by the respondents to respond), the estimated cost to the respondent, and the actual information collection instruments. DATES: Comments are encouraged and will be accepted for 60 days until September 22, 2025. ADDRESSES: All submissions received must include the OMB Control Number 1615-0013 in the body of the letter, the agency name and Docket ID USCIS-2007-0045. Submit comments via the Federal eRulemaking Portal website at https://www.regulations.gov under e-Docket ID number USCIS- 2007-0045. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: USCIS, Office of Policy and Strategy, Regulatory Coordination Division, John R. Pfirrmann-Powell, Acting Chief, telephone number (240) 721-3000 (This is not a toll-free number. Comments are not accepted via telephone message). Please note contact information provided here is solely for questions regarding this notice. It is not for individual case status inquiries. Applicants seeking information about the status of their individual cases can check Case Status Online, available at the USCIS website at https://www.uscis.gov , or call the USCIS Contact Center at 800-375-5283 (TTY 800-767-1833). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments You may access the information collection instrument with instructions or additional information by visiting the Federal eRulemaking Portal site at: https://www.regulations.gov and entering USCIS-2007-0045 in the search box. Comments must be submitted in English, or an English translation must be provided. All submissions will be posted, without change, to the Federal eRulemaking Portal at https://www.regulations.gov , and will include any personal information you provide. Therefore, submitting this information makes it public. You may wish to consider limiting the amount of personal information that you provide in any voluntary submission you make to DHS. DHS may withhold information provided in comments from public viewing that it determines may impact the privacy of an individual or is offensive. For additional information, please read the Privacy Act notice that is available via the link in the footer of https://www.regulations.gov . Written comments and suggestions from the public and affected agencies should address one or more of the following four points: (1) Evaluate whether the proposed collection of information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the agency, including whether the information will have practical utility; (2) Evaluate the accuracy of the agency's estimate of the burden of the proposed collection of information, including the validity of the methodology and assumptions used; (3) Enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected; and (4) Minimize the burden of the collection of information on those who are to respond, including through the use of appropriate automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submission of responses. Overview of This Information Collection (1) Type of Information Collection: Revision of a Currently Approved Collection. (2) Title of the Form/Collection: Application for Travel Document. (3) Agency form number, if any, and the applicable component of the DHS sponsoring the collection: Form I-131; USCIS. (4) Affected public who will be asked or required to respond, as well as a brief abstract: Primary: Individuals or households. Certain individuals, principally lawful permanent residents, conditional permanent residents, refugees, asylees, applicants for adjustment of status, noncitizens with pending Temporary Protected Status (TPS) applications and granted TPS, eligible recipients of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), noncitizens inside the United States seeking an Advance Parole Document, noncitizens outside the United States seeking a Parole Document, previously paroled noncitizens inside the United States who are seeking a new period of parole, and CNMI long-term residents seeking Advance Permission to Travel to allow them to travel to the United States and lawfully enter or reenter the United States. U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents will no longer utilize Form I-131 to request an initial grant of parole for their eligible family members under the Cuban Family Reunification Parole (CFRP) or Haitian Family Reunification Parole (HFRP) processes. (5) An estimate of the total number of respondents and the amount of time estimated for an average respondent to respond: The estimated total number of respondents for the information collection Form I-131 (paper) is 976,639 and the estimated hour burden per response is 3.1 hours; the estimated total number of respondents for the information collection Form I-131 (online) is 30,205 and the estimated hour burden per response is 2 hours; the estimated total number of respondents for biometrics processing is 49,615 and the estimated hour burden per response is 1.17 hours; the estimated total number of respondents for passport-style photos is 16,600 and the estimated hour burden per response is 0.5 hours. (6) An estimate of the total public burden (in hours) associated with the collection: The total estimated annual [[Page 34669]] hour burden associated with this collection is 3,154,341 hours. (7) An estimate of the total public burden (in cost) associated with the collection: The estimated total annual cost burden associated with this collection of information is $296,028,540. Dated: July 21, 2025. John R. Pfirrmann-Powell, Acting Chief, Regulatory Coordination Division, Office of Policy and Strategy, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security. [FR Doc. 2025-13839 Filed 7-22-25; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 9111-97-P