Federal Register, Volume 90 Issue 2 (Friday, January 3, 2025) [Federal Register Volume 90, Number 2 (Friday, January 3, 2025)] [Notices] [Pages 326-327] From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [ www.gpo.gov ] [FR Doc No: 2024-31580] ----------------------------------------------------------------------- DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services [OMB Control Number 1615-0068] Agency Information Collection Activities; Extension, Without Change, of a Currently Approved Collection: Registration for Classification as a Refugee AGENCY: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security. ACTION: 60-Day notice. ----------------------------------------------------------------------- SUMMARY: The Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) invites the general public and other Federal agencies to comment upon this proposed extension of a currently approved collection of information. In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) of 1995, the information collection notice is published in the Federal Register to obtain comments regarding the nature of the information collection, the categories of respondents, the estimated burden (i.e., the time, effort, and resources used by the respondents to respond), the estimated cost to the respondent, and the actual information collection instruments. DATES: Comments are encouraged and will be accepted for 60 days until March 4, 2025. ADDRESSES: All submissions received must include the OMB Control Number 1615-0068 in the body of the letter, the agency name and Docket ID USCIS-2007-0036. Submit comments via the Federal eRulemaking Portal website at https://www.regulations.gov under e-Docket ID number USCIS- 2007-0036. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: USCIS, Office of Policy and Strategy, Regulatory Coordination Division, Samantha Deshommes, Chief, telephone number (240) 721-3000 (This is not a toll-free number. Comments are not accepted via telephone message). Please note contact information provided here [[Page 327]] is solely for questions regarding this notice. It is not for individual case status inquiries. Applicants seeking information about the status of their individual cases can check Case Status Online, available at the USCIS website at https://www.uscis.gov , or call the USCIS Contact Center at 800-375-5283 (TTY 800-767-1833). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments You may access the information collection instrument with instructions or additional information by visiting the Federal eRulemaking Portal site at: https://www.regulations.gov and entering USCIS-2007-0036 in the search box. Comments must be submitted in English, or an English translation must be provided. All submissions will be posted, without change, to the Federal eRulemaking Portal at https://www.regulations.gov , and will include any personal information you provide. Therefore, submitting this information makes it public. You may wish to consider limiting the amount of personal information that you provide in any voluntary submission you make to DHS. DHS may withhold information provided in comments from public viewing that it determines may impact the privacy of an individual or is offensive. For additional information, please read the Privacy Act notice that is available via the link in the footer of https://www.regulations.gov . Written comments and suggestions from the public and affected agencies should address one or more of the following four points: (1) Evaluate whether the proposed collection of information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the agency, including whether the information will have practical utility; (2) Evaluate the accuracy of the agency's estimate of the burden of the proposed collection of information, including the validity of the methodology and assumptions used; (3) Enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected; and (4) Minimize the burden of the collection of information on those who are to respond, including through the use of appropriate automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submission of responses. Overview of This Information Collection (1) Type of Information Collection: Extension, Without Change, of a Currently Approved Collection. (2) Title of the Form/Collection: Registration for Classification as a Refugee. (3) Agency form number, if any, and the applicable component of the DHS sponsoring the collection: I-590; USCIS. (4) Affected public who will be asked or required to respond, as well as a brief abstract: Primary: Individuals or households. The Form I-590 is the primary document in all refugee case files and becomes part of the applicant's A-file. It is the application form by which a person seeks refugee classification and resettlement in the United States. It documents an applicant's legal testimony (under oath) as to his or her identity and claim to refugee status, as well as other pertinent information including marital status, number of children, military service, organizational memberships, and violations of law. In addition to being the application form submitted by a person seeking refugee classification, Form I-590 is used to document that an applicant was interviewed by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) and record the decision by the USCIS Officer to approve or deny the applicant for classification as a refugee. Regardless of age, each person included in the case must have his or her own Form I-590. Refugees applying to CBP for admission must have a stamped I-590 in their travel packet in order to gain admission as a refugee. They do not have refugee status until they are admitted by CBP. (5) An estimate of the total number of respondents and the amount of time estimated for an average respondent to respond: The estimated total number of respondents for the information collection I-590 is 50,000 and the estimated hour burden per response is 3.25 hours; the estimated total number of respondents for the information collection I- 590 Review is 3,000 and the estimated hour burden per response is 1 hour; the estimated total number of respondents for the information collection of DNA Evidence is 100 and the estimated hour burden per response is 2 hours; and the estimated total number of respondents for the information collection of Biometrics is 53,100 and the estimated hour burden per response is 0.33 hours. (6) An estimate of the total public burden (in hours) associated with the collection: The total estimated annual hour burden associated with this collection is 183,223 hours. (7) An estimate of the total public burden (in cost) associated with the collection: The estimated total annual cost burden associated with this collection of information is $12,000. Dated: December 30, 2024. Samantha L Deshommes, Chief, Regulatory Coordination Division, Office of Policy and Strategy, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security. [FR Doc. 2024-31580 Filed 1-2-25; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 9111-97-P